Functions represent some of the most
powerful aspects of the R language.
And they really represent the transition
of the user
of R into the kind of programmer of R.
And the basic idea is that you can type
the command
line and kind of explore some data, and
run some code.
But eventually you'll probably get to the
point where
you need to do something a little bit more
complex.
A little bit more than, than can be
expressed
in a single line or maybe in two lines.
And if you have to do this over and over
again, then you're
usually going to want to encode this kind
of functionality in a function.
I'm going to talk about functions in three
parts here.
First I'll talk just about the basics of
how
to write functions and how they are
written, in R.
Then I'm going to talk a little bit about
lexical
scoping and the scoping rules, in, for the
R language.
And then last, I'm going to end with a
little example.
So, functions in R are created using the
function directive
and functions are stored as R objects just
like anything else.
So you might have a vector of integers a
list of
different things, a data frame, and then
you have a function.
So, in particular, R objects, R functions
are
R objects that are of the class function,
okay?
So, the basic instruction here is that you
assign
to some object, here I call it F, the,
the function directive, which will take
some
arguments, and then inside the curly
braces
there is R, there is R code, which does
something that the function does.
So one nice thing about R is that
functions
are con, considered what are called first
class objects.
So you can treat a function just like you
can treat pretty much any other R object.
So importantly, this means that you can
pass functions as arguments to other
functions.
This is actually
ver, a very useful feature in statistics.
And also functions can be nested.
So you can define a function inside of
another function, and we'll
see what the implications of this are we
talk about lexical scoping.
So the return value of a function is
simply the
very last R expression in the function
value to be evaluated.
so, there's no special expression for
returning something for a function.
Although, there is a function called
Return.
Which we'll talk about in a second.
So functions have what are called named
arguments.
And the named arguments can potentially
have default values.
So, a lot of these features are useful for
when
you're designing functions that, that may
be used by other people.
For example, you may have a function that
had a lot
of different arguments so you can tweak a
lot of different things.
But most of the time, you don't have to
change all those different arguments.
You may only care about one or two.
So it's useful for some of the arguments
to have default values.
So first of all, there's the formal
arguments, which
are the arguments that are included in the
function definition.
So if you go back to the previous slide
the formal
arguments are the ones that are included
inside this function definition here.
The formal's function actually will, takes
a function as an input
and returns a list of all the formal
arguments of a function.
So not every function call in R makes use
of all the formal arguments.
So for example, if a, if a function has
ten different arguments you may
not, you may not have to specify a value
for all ten of those arguments.
So function arguments can be missing or
they
may have default values that are used when
they are not specified by the users.
So R function arguments can be matched
positionally or by name.
So when, this is very, this is key when
you're writing a function and also when
you're calling it.
So for example, take a look at the
function sd, which calculates the standard
deviation of, of, of a set of numbers.
So sd takes a input x, which is the name
of the argument and which is going to be a
vector of data.
And there's a second argument called na.rm
and this controls whether
the missing values in the data should be
removed or not.
And the default value is for na.rm to be
equal to false.
So by default if you have missing data in
your, in the, in the set of
numbers for which you want to calculate
the
standard deviation the missing values will
not be included.
So, here I'm
simulating some data and I'm just
simulating a hundred
normal random variables, and there's no
missing data here.
So, if I just calculate sd on the vector
it'll give me an estimate of the standard
deviation.
If I say X equals my data that's the same
thing.
So here I've named the argument but I
haven't but otherwise
the data are the same so it'll calculate
the standard deviation.
In the first example I didn't
name the argument.
So it defaulted to passing mydata to be
the first argument of the function.
So in the next example here, I'm going to
name both arguments.
I'm going to say X equals mydata, and
na.rm equals false.
That calculates the same thing as before.
Now when I name the arguments, I don't
have to put them in any special order.
So for example, I could reverse the order
of the argument here.
Say na.rm is equals false first, and then
say x
equals mydata second, and that will
produce exactly the same
results because I've named the arguments.
Now, what happens if I name one argument
and don't name the other?
Well what happens is that the named
argument is set, and
you can figure it as being removed from
the argument list, and
then any other, any other things that are
past will be matched
to the function arguments in the order in
which they, they come.
So for example, SD after you remove the
na.rm
argument only has one more argument left
and so mydata
would be assigned to that argument.
So all these expressions return the same
exact value.
So although it's generally, all these
expressions are
equivalent, I don't say recommend all of
them equally.
So for example, I don't necessarily
recommend reversing the order of the
arguments just because you can even though
if you name them, it's appropriate.
so, just, just because that can lead to
some confusion.
So positional matching and matching by
name can be mixed and this
is quite useful often for functions that
have very long argument lists.
And so for example the lm function here
which
fits linear models to data has this
argument list here.
So the first is the formula, the second is
the data And then subset, the weights et
cetera.
And you see that the first five arguments
here don't have any default value.
So, the user has to specify them.
So the but then the method, the model, the
X argument, they all have
default values so if you don't specify
them they will use those values by
default.
And so the following two function calls
are equivalent.
I could have specified the data first and
then the formula and then the model.
And then, and then, and then the subset
arguments
or I could specify the formula first, the
data second,
the subset and then say model is equal to
false.
Now the reason why the first one is okay
is
because I, so I matched the data argument
by name.
You can imagine that that's kind of taken
out of the argument
list now, then Y till the X doesn't, isn't
specified by name.
So it's given to the first argument that
hasn't already been matched.
And I, in which case that's the formula.
Model equal to false, so that's been
matched by name so
I can kind of get rid of that from the
argument list.
And then 1 through 100 has to be assigned
to the argument that has not yet already
been matched.
So in this case formula was already
matched, data was already matched.
And so the next one is subset.
So 1 to 100 get's assigned to the subset
argument.
So this is somewhat a confusing way to
call lm,
and I don't recommend that you do it this
way.
But, I, I wrote it this way just to
demonstrate
how positional matching, and matching by
name can work together.
A common usage for lm though is the second
version here.
Which say lm Y til the X.
So there is a formula there.
And then the next one is mydata, which the
data set which you're going to grab the
data from.
The subset argument and then, so the first
three arguments,
you know, are commonly specified, every
time you call lm.
But then, the rest you may or may not
specify and so
you may, if you just want to specify one
of the following arguments.
It's easier just to call it out by name.
so, most of the time, the named arguments
are useful in the command line.
When you have a long argument list and you
want to use the defaults for everything
except for one of the arguments, which may
be in the middle or near the end
of the list, and you can't usually, you
know, you can't remember exactly which
argument it
is, whether it's the fourth, or the sixth,
or the tenth argument on the argument
list.
And so you just call it by name, and that
way
you don't have to remember the order of
the arguments on
the argument list.
Another example where this comes in handy
is for plotting, because
mo, many of the plot functions have very
long argument lists.
All of which have default values and you
may only want to tweak one specific
argument.
And so it's useful not to have to
remember, you know, what
the order of that argument is on the arg,
on the argument list.
So function arguments can, can also be
partially matched
which is used, mostly useful primarily for
interactive work,
not so much for programming.
But when you call a function, if the
argument has a very long name
you can match it partially so you can type
part of the argument name
and as long as there's a unique match
there then it will, the R
system will match the argument and assign
the value to, to, to the correct one.
So the, the, the order of the operations
that
R uses, first it'll check for an exact
match.
So if you name an argument
it'll check, check to see if there's
an argument that, that exactly matches
that name.
If there's no exact match it'll look for a
partial match.
And then if that doesn't work, it'll look
for a positional match.